Move cgroup v1 support into maintenance mode (#4572)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-node/4569-cgroup-v1-maintenance-mode/README.md

Removing cgroup v1 support immediately.

## Proposal

The proposal outlines a plan to move cgroup v1 support in Kubernetes into maintenance mode, encouraging the community and users to transition to cgroup v2.

### Risks and Mitigations

The primary risk involves potential disruptions for users who migrate to cgroup v2 with incompatible workloads.

Users depending on the following technologies will need to ensure they are using the specified versions or later, which support cgroup v2:

- OpenJDK / HotSpot: jdk8u372, 11.0.16, 15 and later
- NodeJs 20.3.0 or later
- IBM Semeru Runtimes: jdk8u345-b01, 11.0.16.0, 17.0.4.0, 18.0.2.0 and later
- IBM SDK Java Technology Edition Version (IBM Java): 8.0.7.15 and later
- If users run any third-party monitoring and security agents that depend on the cgroup file system, they need to update the agents to a version that supports cgroup v2.

Mitigations include providing clear documentation on the migration process, offering community support for common issues encountered during migration, and keeping the cgroup v1 support in the maintenance mode for allowing users additional time to switch to cgroup v2 without any major disruptions.

> ## Design Details

Reviewer: I think you should mention that we are not creating a feature gate for this feature. We discussed this offline but it isn't really spelled out that we are not introducing a feature gate for this.

Reviewer 2: (we're not adding a feature, either!)

Author: Updated, thanks.

mid-rollout?
-->

N/A

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

<!--
What signals should users be paying attention to when the feature is young
that might indicate a serious problem?
-->

`kubelet_cgroup_version` metric should be used to make determine the cgroup version on the cluster nodes.

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

<!--
Describe manual testing that was done and the outcomes.
Longer term, we may want to require automated upgrade/rollback tests, but we
are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and can't do that now.
-->

N/A

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

<!--
Even if applying deprecation policies, they may still surprise some users.
-->

No

### Monitoring Requirements

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.
-->

###### How can someone using this feature know that it is working for their instance?

A warning log messages as well as an event will be emitted about cgroup v1 maintenance mode when the hosts are still using cgroup v1 from 1.31 onwards.

> 

Reviewer: And you should mention the metric.

Author: Updated, thanks.

<!--
**Note:** This checklist is iterative and should be reviewed and updated every time this enhancement is being considered for a milestone.
-->

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

Move cgroup v1 support in Kubernetes into maintenance mode, aligning with the industry's move towards cgroup v2 as the default for Linux kernel resource management and isolation.

## Motivation

cgroup v2 offers significant improvements over cgroup v1 in terms of feature set, uniformity of interface, and scalability. With major Linux distributions and container runtimes increasingly supporting cgroup v2, Kubernetes aims to encourage the adoption of this newer, more secure, and more performant technology. By transitioning cgroup v1 support to maintenance mode, Kubernetes can ensure stability for existing deployments while simultaneously promoting the gradual adoption of cgroup v2.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe we could have a section on the ecosystem here. Motivation reads a little weak.

Links to oci runtime, RHEL 9.4 deprecation, RHEL 10 dropping support, Fedora defaulting to cgroupv1, Fedora discussions to announce deprecation of cgroupv1.

Reviewer: https://www.phoronix.com/news/systemd-256-rc1

systemd 256 is not booting by default on cgroup v1.

> Support for cgroup v1 is now considered obsolete and systemd by default will refuse to boot under it. There still is a workaround to forcibly re-enable cgroup v1 support, but long story short it's time to move on to cgroup v2.

Reviewer 3: Can we lead with the motivation that upstream kernel has moved to v2 as the target for newer features and distributions as well as projects such as systemd are deprecating support for v1?

Reviewer 4: Yeah, I think we should describe more how the pressure is coming from the ecosystem/our dependencies (linux,systemd,...), if anyone wants long term cgroup v1 support then ... this KEP is far from the only reason that isn't happening, it's a reaction to the reality that the ecosystem is moving on.

It would be good for us to call that out very explicitly.

### Introduction of cgroup version metric

A new metric, `kubelet_cgroup_version`, is proposed. This metric will report values `1` or `2`, indicating whether the host is utilizing cgroup version `1` or `2`, respectively. The kubelet will assess the host's cgroup version at startup and emit this metric accordingly.

The introduction of this metric aims to streamline the process for cluster administrators in determining the cgroup version deployed across their hosts. This metric removes the need for manual node inspection, providing a clear insight into the cgroup version each node operates on.

### Implementing a warning log and an event for cgroup v1 usage

Starting from 1.31, during kubelet startup if the host is running on cgroup v1, kubelet will log a warning message like,

```golang
klog.Warning("cgroup v1 support has been transitioned into maintenance mode, please plan for the migration towards cgroup v2")
```
and also emit a corresponding event,
```golang
eventRecorder.Event(pod, v1.EventTypeWarning, "CgroupV1", fmt.Sprint("cgroup v1 support has been transitioned into maintenance mode"))
```

> #### Code modifications for default cgroup assumptions

Reviewer 5: I know the feature gate has been dropped from the proposal, but I was just wondering if having a feature gate will make the code separation easier. It may increase the code readability for feature development, and can also prepare us for the next steps.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4572#discussion_r1559911931 is how I'd approach that, with a feature gate that starts off _on_.

After at least one more minor release, things change: if you want to use cgroup v1 on a node, you manually need to flip the feature gate to on, because we've changed the default to _off_.

_time passes_

We drop the cgroup v1 support. Maybe. Or we leave it in place. I don't have an opinion on how that part plays out.

extending the production code to implement this enhancement.
-->

The respective kubelet subcomponents already have unit tests cases to handle cgroup v2.

##### Integration tests

<!--
This question should be filled when targeting a release.
For Alpha, describe what tests will be added to ensure proper quality of the enhancement.
For Beta and GA, add links to added tests together with links to k8s-triage for those tests:
https://storage.googleapis.com/k8s-triage/index.html
-->

N/A

##### e2e tests

<!--
This question should be filled when targeting a release.
For Alpha, describe what tests will be added to ensure proper quality of the enhancement.
For Beta and GA, add links to added tests together with links to k8s-triage for those tests:
https://storage.googleapis.com/k8s-triage/index.html
We expect no non-infra related flakes in the last month as a GA graduation criteria.
-->

1. Monitor existing cgroup v2 jobs, e.g.
  - https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-node-release-blocking#ci-crio-cgroupv2-node-e2e-conformance

2. Ensure all features coverage by running all tests on cgroup v2 (while some may still run on cgroup v1 to test back compatibility)

> 

Reviewer 5: Do we have a default test configuration or guideline. If so, we should update that to use cgroupv2 for new features and their tests.

Author: > Do we have a default test configuration or guideline. If so, we should update that to use cgroupv2 for new features and their tests.

@BenTheElder WDYT?

xref: https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/issues/5276

Reviewer 4: > Do we have a default test configuration or guideline

That's a super broad topic ...
We have both node and cluster e2es and those operate across many tools and configurations.

Eliminating something or changing defaults in _all_ of CI tends to be a very large effort because of the scale and variety, but changing the defaults in these tools would get us most of the way there. We can't dictate this though, each project will need to agree because they also have to consider the impact for their non-kubernetes-CI users, excluding kube-up.sh and the local clusters that inherit from CI.

We should definitely be ensuring some v1 coverage until it's actually not supported.

https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/issues/5276 is relevant for local-up-cluster.sh, KIND, `kinder`, (""unit tests"" that are really integration tests -- not recommended but they exist), integration tests (not really relevant to sig node).

For cloudy cluster and node e2e ... there's a lot to cover here including kube-up.sh, kOps, cluster-api, kubespray(?),  ...

Really we're talking about the defaults in the node bringup for those tools. For the local tools we will probably wind up moving to v2 only for the CI clusters and SIG K8s Infra / Testing will need bandwidth in https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/issues/5276

Reviewer 5: > We should definitely be ensuring some v1 coverage until it's actually not supported.

My comment is mostly for adding new tests for new features. Since the KEP aims to put cgroupv1 into the maintenance mode, it'd be good to ensure folks don't add necessary new tests using cgroupv1. Maybe we can start with node E2Es since the "new node features" should be tested there.

Author: @yujuhong thanks, I added a line here as well in `Graduation Criteria` to make cgroup v2 host requirement mandatory for new e2e and node e2e jobs. We can update the documentation in `test-infra` to reflect that.

> ### Graduation Criteria

Reviewer 5: Hmm.... I'm a bit perplexed about the alpha/beta/ga stages listed here. Based on the earlier section, in 1.31, we'll log a warning and send an event about cgroup v1 been transitioned into maintenance mode. Then do we really need to go through all three stages? We can just merged them into one.

Author: The purpose of the `alpha` phase is to publicly announce that cgroup v1 is transitioning into maintenance mode. This early warning will help users prepare for the migration to the newer version.

During the `beta` phase, we can dedicate time to ensure that CI systems align properly, that the cgroup manager add both v1 and v2 specific implementations, and that we address any known issues with v2.

Finally, the `GA` phase is when we officially update the Kubernetes documentation to reflect that cgroup v1 is now in maintenance mode.

Reviewer 5: Hmm... I have a different opinion. Putting cgroupv1 into maintenance mode has impacts on developers and end users. 

1. For end user, the real impact is the "best-effort bug fixes" mentioned in the KEP. But the rest doesn't affect the them yet as we don't have a timeline to stop supporting cgroupv2 yet.
2. For developers, the feature-freeze for cgroup v1 is the primary thing. In reality, there are features that already don't support cgroupv1 by design.

Can we accelerate (2) by declaring feature freeze for cgroupv1 as early as possible (e.g., in the alpha stage)? This lowers the development/support burden and matches the reality better. 
For (1), we can delay until a later stage.

Author: Thanks @yujuhong I will update the KEP.

Author: @yujuhong I collapsed all the required item in `GA` instead of splitting them between `alpha`, `beta` and `GA`. Let me know if I captured that correctly. Thanks.

<!--
**Note:** This checklist is iterative and should be reviewed and updated every time this enhancement is being considered for a milestone.
-->

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

Move cgroup v1 support in Kubernetes into maintenance mode, aligning with the industry's move towards cgroup v2 as the default for Linux kernel resource management and isolation.

## Motivation

cgroup v2 offers significant improvements over cgroup v1 in terms of feature set, uniformity of interface, and scalability. With major Linux distributions and container runtimes increasingly supporting cgroup v2, Kubernetes aims to encourage the adoption of this newer, more secure, and more performant technology. By transitioning cgroup v1 support to maintenance mode, Kubernetes can ensure stability for existing deployments while simultaneously promoting the gradual adoption of cgroup v2.

> ### Goals

Reviewer 6: May I suggest to add a new env variable (or a feature gate) that needs to be set to enable cgroupv1? I think it will be very useful for spreading awareness among the people deploying k8s. Also it will help us with tests - we can check that we are not adding new cgroupv1 test runs in our test grid easier, without the need to review the configuration files for jobs

Reviewer 2: We can change the defaulting in different places, too. 

For example, in some future minor release, imagine that:
- kubeadm defaults to explicitly disabling cgroupv1 support
- kubelet defaults to having cgroup support enabled, but warns if that support actually gets used.
  You can still disable the cgroupv1 support and then you get an error if the kubelet can't find v2 cgroup support from the init process / whatever.

Author: >May I suggest to add a new env variable (or a feature gate) that needs to be set to enable cgroupv1? I think it will be very useful for spreading awareness among the people deploying k8s. Also it will help us with tests - we can check that we are not adding new cgroupv1 test runs in our test grid easier, without the need to review the configuration files for jobs

@SergeyKanzhelev  This was the original plan, but the feedback on this KEP has been not to disrupt existing cgroup v1 support. If we put any barrier to enable cgroup v1, it will disrupt their workflow as they will have to perform this additional step to keep using v1.

Reviewer 4: I don't think we should do this. _maybe_ one release before actually deleting support instead of only announcing it, but we aren't even currently planning to drop support entirely within the scope of this KEP now anyhow?

Something to consider for a future KEP to drop support, I think?

[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

Move cgroup v1 support in Kubernetes into maintenance mode, aligning with the industry's move towards cgroup v2 as the default for Linux kernel resource management and isolation.

## Motivation

cgroup v2 offers significant improvements over cgroup v1 in terms of feature set, uniformity of interface, and scalability. With major Linux distributions and container runtimes increasingly supporting cgroup v2, Kubernetes aims to encourage the adoption of this newer, more secure, and more performant technology. By transitioning cgroup v1 support to maintenance mode, Kubernetes can ensure stability for existing deployments while simultaneously promoting the gradual adoption of cgroup v2.

### Goals

1. **Feature Freeze**: No new features will be added to the cgroup v1 support code. The existing functionality of cgroup v1 will be considered complete and stable.

2. **e2e Testing**: Maintain a set of e2e tests to ensure ongoing validation of cgroup v1 for the currently supported features

3. **Best-Effort Bug Fixes**:

>    - Address critical security vulnerabilities in cgroup v1 as a top priority.

Reviewer 3: would drop `top`

>    - Significant functionality breakages in cgroup v1 will be evaluated and potentially fixed if a feasible solution exists.

Reviewer 3: Other bugs. We wouldn't expect functionality breakages at this point.

>    - Acknowledge that some bugs, particularly those requiring substantial changes, may not be resolvable given the constraints around maintaining cgroup v1 support.

Reviewer 3: Call out that some bugs may need fixes in the kernel or other dependencies that may not happen and so will not be fixed.

4. **Migration Support**: Provide clear and practical migration guidance for users using cgroup v1, facilitating a smoother transition to cgroup v2.

5. **Enhancing cgroup v2 Support**: Address all known pending bugs in Kubernetes’ cgroup v2 support to ensure it reaches a level of reliability and functionality that encourages users to transition from cgroup v1.

### Non-Goals

> Removing cgroup v1 support immediately.

Reviewer 3: drop `immediately` and could say that deprecation and removal will be addressed in a future KEP.

##### Integration tests

<!--
This question should be filled when targeting a release.
For Alpha, describe what tests will be added to ensure proper quality of the enhancement.
For Beta and GA, add links to added tests together with links to k8s-triage for those tests:
https://storage.googleapis.com/k8s-triage/index.html
-->

N/A

##### e2e tests

<!--
This question should be filled when targeting a release.
For Alpha, describe what tests will be added to ensure proper quality of the enhancement.
For Beta and GA, add links to added tests together with links to k8s-triage for those tests:
https://storage.googleapis.com/k8s-triage/index.html
We expect no non-infra related flakes in the last month as a GA graduation criteria.
-->

1. Monitor existing cgroup v2 jobs, e.g.
  - https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-node-release-blocking#ci-crio-cgroupv2-node-e2e-conformance

2. Ensure all features coverage by running all tests on cgroup v2 (while some may still run on cgroup v1 to test back compatibility)

3. Make cgroup v2 host mandatory for new e2e and node e2e tests.

### Graduation Criteria

#### Alpha

N/A

#### Beta

> N/A

Author: > I think some of the GA requirements should be required before we call this beta if not announcing the alpha. Beta is still expected to be relatively stable and this is a big announcement ...?

https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4572/files#r1581399681

@yujuhong WDYT?

- Fix all pending known bugs in cgroup v2 support in kubernetes.
- Separation of cgroup v1 and cgroup v2 Code Paths. Check [this](#separation-of-cgroup-v1-and-cgroup-v2-code-paths) section for details.

- Mark cgroup v1 support in maintenance mode in the [documenatation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/).

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

<!--
If applicable, how will the component be upgraded and downgraded? Make sure
this is in the test plan.

Consider the following in developing an upgrade/downgrade strategy for this
enhancement:
- What changes (in invocations, configurations, API use, etc.) is an existing
  cluster required to make on upgrade, in order to maintain previous behavior?
- What changes (in invocations, configurations, API use, etc.) is an existing
  cluster required to make on upgrade, in order to make use of the enhancement?
-->

- For clusters upgrading to a version of Kubernetes where cgroup v1 is in maintenance mode, administrators should ensure that all nodes are compatible with cgroup v2 prior to upgrading. This might include operating system upgrades or workload configuration changes.

> - Downgrading to a version that supports cgroup v1 should not require any special considerations regarding cgroup version, as cgroup v2 is backwards compatible with cgroup v1 from a Kubernetes perspective. However, specific node configurations or workload resource requirements may necessitate adjustments.

Reviewer 4: This isn't quite true as with the current plans we may have cgroup-v2-only default-on functionality that is lost when downgrading?

We should probably recommend that people migrate to cgroup v2 _before_ upgrading Kubernetes? (and they can roll back the kernel/host change)

Author: That's a good point. Some kubelet features like swap support only work with v2, so we need to call that out. Thanks for pointing that out. I will update that text.

-->

###### How can a rollout fail? Can it impact already running workloads?

<!--
Try to be as paranoid as possible - e.g., what if some components will restart
mid-rollout?
-->

N/A

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

<!--
What signals should users be paying attention to when the feature is young
that might indicate a serious problem?
-->

`kubelet_cgroup_version` metric should be used to make determine the cgroup version on the cluster nodes.

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

<!--
Describe manual testing that was done and the outcomes.
Longer term, we may want to require automated upgrade/rollback tests, but we
are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and can't do that now.
-->

N/A

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

<!--
Even if applying deprecation policies, they may still surprise some users.
-->

No

### Monitoring Requirements

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.
-->

###### How can someone using this feature know that it is working for their instance?

> A warning log messages as well as an event will be emitted about cgroup v1 maintenance mode when the hosts are still using cgroup v1 from 1.31 onwards.

Reviewer 4: nit:
```suggestion
Warning logs as well as an event will be emitted about cgroup v1 maintenance mode when the hosts are still using cgroup v1 from 1.31 onwards.
```

("A" is in conflict with plural "messages" here, we should pick either singular or plural)

User will also be able to probe the cgroup version on the hosts using the metric `kubelet_cgroup_version`.

###### How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?

<!--
Ideally, this should be a metric. Operations against the Kubernetes API (e.g.,
checking if there are objects with field X set) may be a last resort. Avoid
logs or events for this purpose.
-->

> Operators can use `kubelet_cgroup_version` metric to determine the version of the cgroup on the cluster hosts.

Reviewer 4: We might also need metrics for any cgroup v2-only features so they know these will be unavailable when reverting to v1?

Author: Not sure how to do that though. Each feature kinda decides on it's own if it will work on v2 or not.

The introduction of this metric aims to streamline the process for cluster administrators in determining the cgroup version deployed across their hosts. This metric removes the need for manual node inspection, providing a clear insight into the cgroup version each node operates on.

### Implementing a warning log and an event for cgroup v1 usage

Starting from 1.31, during kubelet startup if the host is running on cgroup v1, kubelet will log a warning message like,

```golang
klog.Warning("cgroup v1 detected. cgroup v1 support has been transitioned into maintenance mode, please plan for the migration towards cgroup v2. More information at https://git.k8s.io/enhancements/keps/sig-node/4569-cgroup-v1-maintenance-mode")
```
and also emit a corresponding event,
```golang
eventRecorder.Event(pod, v1.EventTypeWarning, "CgroupV1", fmt.Sprint("cgroup v1 detected. cgroup v1 support has been transitioned into maintenance mode, please plan for the migration towards cgroup v2. More information at https://git.k8s.io/enhancements/keps/sig-node/4569-cgroup-v1-maintenance-mode"))
```

> #### Introduce a kubelet flag to disable cgroup v1 support

Reviewer 7: nit: this is `####` where the above ones are `###` did you mean for this to be a subsection of the above?

Author: good catch.

A new boolean kubelet flag, `--disable-cgroupv1-support`, will be introduced. By default, this flag will be set to `false` to ensure users can continue to use cgroup v1 without any issues. The primary objective of introducing this flag is to set it to `true` in CI, ensuring that all blocking and new CI jobs use only cgroup v2 by default (unless the job explicitly wants to run on cgroup v1).

> #### Code modifications for default cgroup assumptions

Reviewer 7: same here

Author: good catch, updating.

extending the production code to implement this enhancement.
-->

The respective kubelet subcomponents should have unit tests cases to handle cgroup v1 and v2.

##### Integration tests

<!--
This question should be filled when targeting a release.
For Alpha, describe what tests will be added to ensure proper quality of the enhancement.
For Beta and GA, add links to added tests together with links to k8s-triage for those tests:
https://storage.googleapis.com/k8s-triage/index.html
-->

N/A

##### e2e tests

<!--
This question should be filled when targeting a release.
For Alpha, describe what tests will be added to ensure proper quality of the enhancement.
For Beta and GA, add links to added tests together with links to k8s-triage for those tests:
https://storage.googleapis.com/k8s-triage/index.html
We expect no non-infra related flakes in the last month as a GA graduation criteria.
-->

1. Monitor both cgroup v1 and v2 CI jobs.

2. Ensure all features coverage by running all tests on cgroup v2 (while some may still run on cgroup v1 to test back compatibility)

3. Make cgroup v2 host mandatory for new e2e and node e2e tests.

### Graduation Criteria

#### Alpha

N/A

#### Beta

> N/A

Reviewer 7: instead of N/A here, can you explicitly say something like "this feature won't follow the normal cycle of alpha->beta->GA, and will instead be all implemented in GA"?

<!--
Describe manual testing that was done and the outcomes.
Longer term, we may want to require automated upgrade/rollback tests, but we
are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and can't do that now.
-->

N/A

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

<!--
Even if applying deprecation policies, they may still surprise some users.
-->

No

### Monitoring Requirements

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.
-->

###### How can someone using this feature know that it is working for their instance?

A Warning log as well as an event will be emitted about cgroup v1 maintenance mode when the hosts are still using cgroup v1 from 1.31 onwards.

User will also be able to probe the cgroup version on the hosts using the metric `kubelet_cgroup_version`.

###### How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?

<!--
Ideally, this should be a metric. Operations against the Kubernetes API (e.g.,
checking if there are objects with field X set) may be a last resort. Avoid
logs or events for this purpose.
-->

> Operators can use `kubelet_cgroup_version` metric to determine the version of the cgroup on the cluster hosts.

Reviewer 7: can't they also use the event? that may have better visibility

### Goals

1. **Feature Freeze**: No new features will be added to the cgroup v1 support code. The existing functionality of cgroup v1 will be considered complete and stable.

2. **e2e Testing**: Maintain a set of e2e tests to ensure ongoing validation of cgroup v1 for the currently supported features

3. **Security Maintenance**: Kubernetes community may provide security fixes for Critical and Important CVEs related to cgroup v1  as long as the release is not in end of life.

4. **Best-Effort Bug Fixes**:
   - Address critical security vulnerabilities in cgroup v1 on priority.
   - Major bugs in cgroup v1 will be evaluated and potentially fixed if a feasible solution exists.
   - Acknowledging that some bugs, particularly those requiring substantial changes, may not be resolvable given the constraints around maintaining cgroup v1 support, some issues may need fixes in the kernel or other dependencies that may not happen and so will not be fixed.

5. **Migration Support**: Provide clear and practical migration guidance for users using cgroup v1, facilitating a smoother transition to cgroup v2.

> 6. **Enhancing cgroup v2 Support**: Address all known pending bugs in Kubernetes’ cgroup v2 support to ensure it reaches a level of reliability and functionality that encourages users to transition from cgroup v1.

Reviewer 8: I don't see a direct discussion of this.  Have we met this criteria?  Can we get a link to the cgroups v2 test grid?

Author: I added that line to address the concern raised in this comment https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4572#discussion_r1554397743

Author: Most likely that particular issue may not be directly related to the k8s, https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/pull/3933#issuecomment-1771110499

Reviewer 8: I suggest working sig-node leads to be sure all known problems have been resolved and shipped in a release to ensure all the fixes work prior to switching to maintenance mode for cgroups v1.
